Add blog: Agent Evaluation in MLflow with Google ADK (#614)
mlflow/mlflow-website: website/blog/2026-05-28-mlflow-google-adk-evaluators/index.mdx

---
title: "Agent Evaluation in MLflow with Google ADK"

> description: Use Google ADK's trajectory, ROUGE, and LLM-judge evaluators as MLflow scorers for end-to-end agent evaluation.

Reviewer: where does ROUGE come from? seems like an implementation detail

Author: Removed in 5c345c5. The description now reads trajectory, response-match, and LLM-judge evaluators. ROUGE only comes up in the body where the mechanics matter.

slug: mlflow-google-adk-evaluators
authors: [debu-sinha]
tags: [genai, evaluation, agents, google-adk, scorers]
thumbnail: /img/blog/mlflow-google-adk-thumbnail.png
image: /img/blog/mlflow-google-adk-thumbnail.png
---

MLflow's [evaluation framework](https://mlflow.org/docs/latest/genai/eval-monitor/) now wraps the [Google Agent Development Kit (ADK)](https://google.github.io/adk-docs/) evaluator suite as third-party scorers. The integration covers five ADK evaluators (`ToolTrajectory`, `ResponseMatch`, `ResponseEvaluation`, `Safety`, `Hallucination`) so agent evaluations can use ADK's built-in metrics inside any `mlflow.genai.evaluate()` run.

Agent evaluation isn't shaped like RAG evaluation. A wrong tool call early in a trajectory can produce a correct-looking final response. A fluent answer can still skip a required step. Scoring an agent means asking three questions about the full trace: did the agent call the right tools in the right order, did the final response match what the user needed, and did the model hallucinate. ADK's evaluator suite was built for this shape.

> The five scorers split into deterministic checks (tool trajectory matching and ROUGE-based response similarity) and LLM-judge checks (response quality, safety, factual grounding). Deterministic scorers run in microseconds and have no API cost. `ResponseEvaluation` and `Hallucination` call `gemini-2.5-flash` by default and return judge rationale alongside the score. `Safety` is the exception: it routes through Vertex AI's prebuilt SAFETY metric, which manages its own model selection. All five run against the same MLflow trace, so a single evaluation can layer cheap structural checks under more expensive judge calls.

Reviewer: I would re-write this to establish what is it that ADK tries to evaluate (did the agent call the right tools in the right order, did the final response match what the user needed, and did the model hallucinate) and how the evaluators provided fit into this. Something like:

```suggestion
ADK's evaluator suite was built to answer three questions about the full trace: did the agent call the right tools in the right order, did the final response match what the user needed, and did the model hallucinate.  The provided scorers include both deterministic (e.g., tool trajectory matching, response matching based on ROUGE) and LLM-judge checks (e.g., safety and hallucination scores). All five run against the same MLflow trace, so a single evaluation can layer cheap structural checks under more expensive judge calls.
```

Author: Applied your framing in 5c345c5, close to verbatim. The intro now leads with the three questions ADK answers, then splits the scorers into deterministic vs LLM-judge checks.

| `ResponseEvaluation` | Whether the final response matches expected semantically    | Wraps ADK's `FinalResponseMatchV2Evaluator`, an LLM judge with majority voting                                                    |
| `Safety`             | Whether the response contains unsafe content                | Wraps ADK's `SafetyEvaluatorV1`, which delegates to Vertex AI's prebuilt SAFETY metric                                            |
| `Hallucination`      | Whether the response contains hallucinated content          | Wraps ADK's `HallucinationsV1Evaluator`, an LLM judge                                                                             |

The deterministic scorers (`ToolTrajectory`, `ResponseMatch`) read actual tool calls and the final response directly from the MLflow trace. The LLM-judge scorers (`ResponseEvaluation`, `Hallucination`) call `gemini-2.5-flash` by default with five-sample majority voting, and both arguments are configurable. `Safety` is the exception. It routes through Vertex AI's managed SAFETY metric, which ignores judge-model overrides, so the scorer raises if `model` or `num_samples` is passed.

## Evaluating an Agent

> The example below runs trajectory matching, ROUGE response similarity, and an LLM-judge response evaluation against a flight-booking agent. The agent emits a trace through `mlflow.start_span()` calls, and the scorers consume the trace directly without re-running the agent.

Reviewer: there's no start span calls here which is a bit confusing. can we just omit that?

Author: Removed in 5c345c5. The sentence now just says the example scores recorded interactions without re-running the agent.

                {"name": "sort_by_price", "args": {}},
            ],
            "actual_tool_calls": [
                {"name": "search_flights", "args": {"destination": "Tokyo"}},
                {"name": "sort_by_price", "args": {}},
            ],
            "expected_response": "The cheapest flight to Tokyo is JL789.",
        },
    },
]

results = mlflow.genai.evaluate(
    data=eval_data,
    scorers=[
        ToolTrajectory(match_type="EXACT", threshold=0.5),
        ResponseMatch(threshold=0.5),
        ResponseEvaluation(threshold=0.6),
    ],
)
```

The second row exercises a multi-tool trajectory. The agent has to call `search_flights` first and `sort_by_price` second. `ToolTrajectory` scores 1.0 when the call sequence matches under the selected `match_type` (`EXACT`, `IN_ORDER`, or `ANY_ORDER`) and 0.0 when it doesn't. `ResponseMatch` returns a ROUGE-1 F-measure independent of tool calls. `ResponseEvaluation` asks the judge whether the final response matches semantically. Results land in the same MLflow evaluation UI as any other scorer, so trajectory failures, lexical mismatches, and judge disagreements are visible side-by-side.

> `Safety` and `Hallucination` slot into the same `evaluate()` call when the workload needs them. `Hallucination` doesn't require any reference and is useful for catching fabricated facts in free-form responses. `Safety` requires Google Cloud project credentials (Vertex AI service account or `gcloud auth application-default login`) on top of a `GEMINI_API_KEY`, because the underlying evaluator delegates to a managed Vertex AI metric.

Reviewer: We don't use these - can we either omit this paragraph or use it in the example above? We can leave this as a comment maybe.

Author: Went with the comment option in 5c345c5. Dropped the paragraph and left a two-line note inside the scorers list, right where the credentials requirement actually bites.

---
title: "Agent Evaluation in MLflow with Google ADK"
description: Use Google ADK's trajectory, response-match, and LLM-judge evaluators as MLflow scorers for end-to-end agent evaluation.
slug: mlflow-google-adk-evaluators
authors: [debu-sinha]
tags: [genai, evaluation, agents, google-adk, scorers]
thumbnail: /img/blog/mlflow-google-adk-thumbnail.png
image: /img/blog/mlflow-google-adk-thumbnail.png
---

MLflow's [evaluation framework](https://mlflow.org/docs/latest/genai/eval-monitor/) now wraps the [Google Agent Development Kit (ADK)](https://google.github.io/adk-docs/) evaluator suite as third-party scorers. The integration covers five ADK evaluators (`ToolTrajectory`, `ResponseMatch`, `ResponseEvaluation`, `Safety`, `Hallucination`) so agent evaluations can use ADK's built-in metrics inside any `mlflow.genai.evaluate()` run.

Agent evaluation isn't shaped like RAG evaluation. A wrong tool call early in a trajectory can produce a correct-looking final response. A fluent answer can still skip a required step.

> ADK's evaluator suite was built to answer three questions about the full trace: did the agent call the right tools in the right order, did the final response match what the user needed, and did the model hallucinate. The provided scorers include both deterministic (e.g., tool trajectory matching, response matching based on ROUGE) and LLM-judge checks (e.g., safety and hallucination scores). All five run against the same MLflow trace, so a single evaluation can layer cheap structural checks under more expensive judge calls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Agent evaluation isn't shaped like RAG evaluation. A wrong tool call early in a trajectory can produce a correct-looking final response. A fluent answer can still skip a required step. ADK's evaluator suite was built to answer three questions about the full trace: did the agent call the right tools in the right order, did the final response match what the user needed, and did the model hallucinate. The provided scorers include both deterministic (e.g., tool trajectory matching, response matching based on ROUGE) and LLM-judge checks (e.g., safety and hallucination scores). All five run against the same MLflow trace, so a single evaluation can layer cheap structural checks under more expensive judge calls.
```

Author: Applied in c511b0a. Folded the two intro paragraphs into one so the text matches your suggestion exactly.
